---
layout: page
title: Fully funded PhD position at the University of Guelph
link: /opportunities/csa2021.html
---

Canada’s Arctic and Boreal regions are covered by lakes that range from seasonally flooded wetlands, ponds and shallow lakes to large, deep lakes. These water bodies collectively cover a large percentage of the total land surface play a critical role carbon cycling and other Earth surface processes. Although these lakes are sensitive to a warming climate, Canada does not currently have a program to monitor them and model future changes. With funding from the Canadian Space Agency, Wilfrid Laurier University and the University of Guelph are collaborating on a research program in the western Canadian Arctic that integrates field-based monitoring with aerial and satellite-based observations and a hydrologic lake model to improve our understanding of the current and future state of Arctic lakes. 

The Department of Geography, Environment and Geomatics at the University of Guelph is currently recruiting 1 PhD student (starting in Fall 2021) under this project to study water extent and surface elevation dynamics of Arctic lakes using observations from various airborne and satellite platforms, including AirSWOT, Sentinel-3, the upcoming SWOT mission and the RADARSAT Constellation Mission. The successful applicant must have a M.Sc. in GIS, remote sensing, physical geography, hydrology, environmental sciences, or a related field. Demonstrated experience in the application of remote sensing for environmental mapping and monitoring (e.g., through past publications and/or project work) is essential. Experience with synthetic aperture radar (SAR) remote sensing, interferometry and/or radar altimetry is an asset.

Interested candidates are encouraged to send a current CV, unofficial transcripts and a statement of interest to Dr. Aaron Berg (aberg@uoguelph.ca) and Dr. Ben DeVries (bdv@uoguelph.ca). Applications will be reviewed until the position is filled.
